README:

BlackBird is an app with the purpose of 'bridging the gap' between those suffering from mental health crises and their relevant health care professionals. The app serves as a secure area to record relavent information from client's appointments for better organisation. As well as this, client's can comment on these posts by their Health Professional to comment on the approaches that they had taken that week.

For example, if a psychiatrist prescribed a new medication to a client they would record that it the consultation and then their client could comment on how they're progressing with the medication. Or, if a psychotherapist prescribed mindfulness exercises they would record this in the consultation. Their client could then comment on how they went with these.

As a team, we used a vast number of technoligies to create this app. One of the principal things we wanted to ensure our app had was above average security. While we could have made the security from scratch, we decided that it would be best to enlist the assistance of an already renowned Security Program known as Auth0. Auth0 not only then handled our login functions, but also our user authentication. A further library we used was axios, axios would allow us to make API calls so the front end of our app and the back end would be able to communicate. This would allow us to take things such as consultations and sections from our database and then display them on the front end. We also used another library created by one of our teammembers in order to create 'components'. These components would then be used to in tandem with axios to deliver anything to the client side that we needed multiple of, such as names in sidebars, consultations or sections of consultations.
As a part of our security process, we also needed a way that doctors could connect to their patients rather than just searching them and 'adding' them like a social networking site. While it is still in production, we've laid the groundwork for an email system in which a doctor could send an authorisation code to their patient by entering their email to the relevant section in the app. Once the patient recieved this email, they would then enter it into their patient view. Effectively linking them to their doctor.
Of course, another dependency of the app would be express. Which the app's routes was largely built around. This not only allowed us to create routes in whixh axios could communicate with, but also routes in which the client would use in order to navigate our app.
On our app, one would notice that our consultations mainly use modals as a way to see the information to decide. In order to assist with the creations of these modals we used a library known as 'tingle'. Tingle allowed us to create these modals in JS files easily and then subsequently include our components as their content.


In terms of the approach we took, our team started off of course with planning through wireframes and data. From this, we decided that it would be best to start on the back end of our app. Our app is mostly backend, focussing largely on servers as well as communicating through these with routes. So, the first thing we made in relation to the back end was our database as well as the models for each of the tables in the database. We then moved on to making the routes required and some basic html. Over the course of the app these routes would be edited but they largely stayed the same based on the models created. Once that was finalised we began to create things such as our components and our server side javascript as well as how it communicated with the client view. 

Major hurdles we encountered as a team was the fact that our app mainly focussed around communicating between multiple tables in our database at one time. While at the start of our project timeframe this seemed inconsequential, toward the end it certainly became a lot more complicated and wires tended to get crossed. This meant that it took a lot longer to get the front end to an appropriate state than we first expected. As well as this, there are still some of our websites functions that do not work as expected. Such as the adding patients or doctors. Or the posting of consultations not already in the database. While we are hoping to do these at a later time, the incompletion of these can simply be put down to time constraints. If we were to start over we would likely change the structure of communication within our databases in order to better streamline the processes within our app.

Link to our wireframe: https://whimsical.com/5EpDsPfsCu44nAYCy8hnYh

Link to our diagrams: https://dbdiagram.io/d/615bd2e4825b5b0146210c31